Storming onto the international music scene in the fall of 1997, the 
Danish dance-pop outfit Aqua aroused controversy when Mattel filed a 
lawsuit against them for the sexual overtones inherent in their 
breakthrough hit "Barbie Girl."
The roots of the quartet trace back to 1989, when Claus and Soeren 
(both keyboards/drum machine) were working together on the soundtrack 
for a Danish film, Fraekke Frida. During this time they met future 
member Rene (rap/vocals), who introduced them to Norwegian singer Lene.
 The four soon formed the band Joyspeed, whose single "Itzy Bitzy" 
spent one week on the Swedish charts before vanishing. Disappointed 
with the song's lack of success, the group decided to reinvent 
themselves as Aqua (allegedly, this name was derived from a poster 
featuring an aquarium hanging in their rehearsal room). Soon after, 
they secured another record contract with the Danish label Universal 
Music, who released their first single, "Roses Are Red," in September 
1996. The song stayed on the charts for two months, receiving a 
platinum record in the process. The follow-up, "My Oh My" (February 
1997), went gold in only six days, becoming the fastest-selling Danish 
single of all time and paving the way for their breakthrough 
international hit "Barbie Girl." The band's first full-length album, 
Aquarium, was released in September 1997. ~ Jeremy Ulrey, All-Music 
Guide 
